- yen here are five problems I have with
your behavior number one you don't shut
up about being vegan veganism isn't a
bad thing but it's just it's not
something that you need to tell us about
all the time you can probably just go
ahead and keep it to yourself and I'm
not trying to start a war with vegans
with this video I think a lot of vegans
out there you wouldn't even know they
were vegan huh nah no Yin so her
position is there's nothing wrong with
being vegan if only you can keep it to
yourself if it's just your little dirty
secret and you know this really runs
parallel to discussions about gay rights
that I can remember from the 1980s I am
old enough to remember the 1980s kids
you actually cannot sustain the position
ethically that there's nothing wrong
about homosexuality as long as you keep
it to yourself it's not sustainable on
the small scale of just one gay person
your gay best friend your gay cousin
your gay brother your gay co-worker and
it's also not sustainable when you scale
it up and look at a society of millions
of people in which there are at least
hundreds of thousands of gay people it's
not but it does actually take some work
you have to invest your imagination your
intellect into really thinking on but
knock-on consequences the indirect
consequences of homosexuals concealing
their sexuality and their sexuality is
only one part of their identity it might
seem harmless to say and again back in
the 80s many people thought it was
harmless to say many people did not
consider themselves homophobes but they
still maintained that if they have a
co-worker who's gay they don't want to
know about it if they have a cousin or a
brother or a friend who's gay it should
all just be kept secret in that way
society could just keep going on well in
a sense it could in a sense you could
have a society where absolutely all
homosexuals has to live in the closet
and where every day they have to live
with the inconvenience of people
offering to set them up on a date with
their sister which they're not
because they're gay or co-workers asking
about their roommate and them having to
make up lies if a white as they go to
Disneyland with their roommate which is
kind of weird if you're a heterosexual
or you know their grandmother asking
them why they haven't had kids yet or
this kind of thing there's a lot of
awkwardness on that one-to-one level and
beyond that there's also an element of
living in fear long term if the whole
society stays in the closet if everyone
lived by Bill Clinton's principle that
was Bill Clinton who set up the
principle of Don't Ask Don't Tell he
thought you have the military work with
all the gays being in the closet it
doesn't work it does not work you don't
get ten guys living in a tent together
you know you don't get guys in the
sniper corps living in such close
quarters for such a long time and not
knowing about each other's sexuality
that's ridiculous
it is I mean on that level the
one-to-one scale is dick ulis that the
next step I want to take of this is not
just the one-to-one scale what if your
position in the Army is that you can be
fired at any time if the reality of your
sexuality is confessed what if you are a
fireman or a school teacher and the
school board that you work for their
position is that if anyone is known to
be a homosexual they can be fired and
maybe you get called in and asked about
it maybe you have a meeting in the
principal's office where you're asked
about why you live with your roommate
not with a girlfriend or a wife or you
know why you haven't had kids yet and
you're being interrogated for that
you're being persecuted for that over
time what is it that creates the social
conditions the cultural change and the
legislative change the new laws that
today protect the rights of homosexuals
in the classroom in the fire department
in the army what brings that up though
is its secrecy is it is it living a lie
is it making people like you more
comfortable by just keeping it to
yourself by treating a secret no we had
to have like 10 billion awkward
conversations coast-to-coast I'm
Canadian not American by the way but
coast-to-coast in Canada there were a
billion awkward conversation
I mean really the 1980s I could say was
the turning point where there was this
cultural change of saying no no you're
not just gonna sit down with your
grandmother and say yeah I don't have
kids yet maybe you'll have grandkids
next year you know uh where people
actually said look grandma I'm not going
to have kids this year I'm not gonna
have kids next year I'm not gonna have
kids ever because the guidance of my
roommate is not really my roommate and I
think a lot of grandparents thought yeah
I'd always suspected that I mean it's
well most cases it wasn't right out of
the blue in some cases I'm sure it was I
mean if you have gay friends a lot of
them sorry lousy what do you mean you
donated that girl back in high school
whatever the story is different families
have different stories but sure on the
on that one-to-one scale there were a
billion awkward conversations but this
connects to on a larger scale on the
social scale say as a whole people
organizing themselves into foundations
into advocacy groups into lobbying
groups influencing government
influencing public education ultimately
bring about legal changes that protect
your status in the office in the school
in the army where you cannot be fired
for your sexuality where you're not
obliged to live a life now homosexuality
it's a really interesting comparison to
veganism I really often say to vegans
don't compare the future of the vegan
movement to the abolition of slavery or
the history of the American Civil War
you know homosexuals managed to
fundamentally change our culture or
legal structure their status in our
society without a civil war right it was
a very fundamental change in society
that was brought about with in
democracies by Democratic means and
without too many people being shot dead
in the streets it's really a largely
nonviolent very fundamental change and
that's one that vegans can learn from
however in this woman's line of critique
vegans
it's also worth contrasting just how
many times veganism comes up in a day or
in a week in a month at your workplace
compared to homosexuality now this is my
personal opinion I think when you start
a new job we have a new workplace a
whole bunch of new co-workers
at first there are a few discussions
pertaining to your sexuality whether
those are polite or employed when you
first show up people want to know if
you're single if you're available or if
you're married or otherwise off the
market people want to know if you're gay
or straight
what's up with you nor when you first
start a job there are a couple of
conversations and a little bit of
gossiping and then it fades into the
background unless things suddenly change
unless while you're at the job you get
divorced whatever uh but it's not
something that comes up every day it's
true and that's very different from
being in the closet but you know if
you're gay at the workplace unless you
work at a strip club you're not going to
talk about it day after day every day
it's not going to come up with your boss
and your coworkers
and the reality is almost know that even
if you do work in a strip club as a
vegan it's amazing how it comes up it
even if you don't want to even if you're
tired of talking about it if you don't
want to witness to other people you
don't want to preach right my boss here
in China there's several different
people I could describe as my boss I
work at a university so everyone's my
boss all the other professors are my
boss but my boss invited me to go to
dinner with her family with her husband
and her kid so it's a formal workplace
invitation I actually went to the
restaurant first to check it out and
that restaurant there was not even one
thing that was vegan it was a soup
restaurant absolutely the soup had meat
stock meat oil
there was no way anything there could be
could be began sank to the boiling meat
was really a horrible stench or vegan I
don't think meat eaters like that smell
either so you know I had to turn down
that that work engagement as a vegan
day-to-day is really impossible to be in
the closet and please Jen I am NOT
saying this as a joke but if I just go
out to coffee with a co-worker
just coffee I have to explain I can't
eat this cookie that came with the
coffee because it's not vegan and I have
to send this back this has milk in it it
will come up it will come up and if
you're gay you know what that coffee I
do think I mean I don't think anyone's
you live in the closet that would be
wrong
but it's also enough that's going to be
mentioned three meals a day and it's not
like you're going to sit down in the
coffee shop and say I'm not really
comfortable with this coffee shop it's
too heterosexual
it's not like you're going to say I
can't drink this coffee this is straight
coffee why can't they make gay coffee
it's not like you're going to say no
this cookie this is not gay enough for
me all right send me email send me send
me comments in the comment if you're
acceptable I've never had a gay friend
who had that kind of attitude like it
never had a gay friend says they only
eat at gay restaurants right or or asks
when the waiter comes is there a gay
option on the menu yeah I don't have any
gay friends like that a lot of gay
people so again I realize her approach
here is fundamentally unsympathetic
she's not interested in seeing it from
our perspective but if you think
homosexuality comes up too often in the
workplace in school with co-workers with
your family with friends whatever it is
because you know sometimes you may be a
little bit bored of hearing you may
think oh you know Jim he's always
talking about his sex life I don't
really want to hear it life is full of
those you know minor you know minor
sources of friction and conflict
personality company sure what you should
be able to appreciate that even in the
workplace even if it's just going out
for coffee you're going to dinner with
your boss or with coworkers that
veganism actually is something comes
above time even when we don't want to
talk about it and when you scale it up
our problem scaling up is actually much
worse than it is for homosexuals
homosexuals are a huge percentage of the
population and vegans are unlikely to be
more than one half of one percent right
I have no idea the real number of how
many people are gay
it is vastly more than one-half of one
percent and some gay people are born
rich and some are born poor and some of
them are lawyers and some of them are
architects and they have the proven
capacity to form the civil society
organizations and the lobbying groups
they need to defend their rights and
give themselves a voice and democratic
system and vegan so far we really don't
have that
there are a lot of differences vegans
are a self-selecting minority were not
randomly distributed the way gays are
you'll find gangs everywhere to find
them in Texas again among rich and poor
in all walks of life and you don't find
the against no walks of life right you
find them here and there and little
strange pockets a lot of vegans in
Portland Oregon let's you know even if
you go to the most right-wing town in
Texas you're going to meet plenty of gay
people shows that Albuquerque New Mexico
always remember the gay club in
Albuquerque New Mexico Wow anyway look
uh when you scale it up we need to go
through a similar process to advocate
for our issues in a democratic society
we need to identify one another get
politicized get organized and give a
voice to issues that matter to us we for
example are not comfortable seeing
schoolchildren taught in schools that
milk cow milk is healthy for them the
chicken eggs are healthy for them as a
very real scientific fact those two
things are not true
we don't even have to get into meat here
let's just stick with those two examples
that are fundamental to the modern
American diet an amount of Canadian
diamond we know as a scientific fact
that no human being should ever eat
chicken eggs they are that unhealthy and
dairy is not that far behind it is
fundamentally bad advice to tell a child
that they should eat cheese we want to
change a matter of legal policy a matter
of culture matter of Education we want
to change what children are taught about
food sure we'd also love to see
questions of animal rights and ethics
and ecology included in the curriculum
but on a very simple level why do you
have egg industry propaganda in the
classroom while you have dairy industry
programmed classroom
can we change and take it over back to
the 1980s to me that's very closely
parallel to a time when there was
Catholic propaganda in the classroom
when there was Protestant propaganda in
the classroom when instead of having
education that's realistic about condoms
and contraceptives
and sexually transmitted diseases when
children were we I remember I remember
the 1980s when children were being
taught taught things about homosexuality
and about heterosexuality when children
were being taught really fundamentally
dangerous and scientifically false
propaganda about sex in the classroom we
want to change that right and you can
look around today but I think there's no
comparison I think even in the Catholic
school board what they now teach
children about gays in Canada I have
looked into that it's very addressed in
question that's a 180 degrees different
from what children were taught about
homosexuals in the 1980s so it's a
fundamental change it's a change that
doesn't just relate to the awkwardness
of the avenida nur with my boss of me
having to communicate it to my coworkers
where I do and do not stand it's a
change that ultimately links to
questions of culture and public policy
in a dynamic way what the future of the
vegan movement should be is debatable
but I'll tell you one thing right now
it's not debatable that the way forward
is for us to go back in the closet the
way forward for us and for you cannot
possibly be for us to keep it to
ourselves the new gen